Vacancies will be filled in the following specialty areas:
Criminal Investigation Strategy- Human Resources

The following are the duties of this position at the full working level.

The incumbent is responsible for serving as a strategic business partner to support BOD leadership in all Human Resource related issues. The incumbent is also responsible for implementation and interpretation of Human Resources policies and procedures.
Ensures the execution of key BOD HR initiatives and processes to drive continuous improvement in the areas of organization effectiveness, staffing, employee relations, training and development, benefits, employment practices, and compliance.
Provides authoritative information and/or advice to human resource support staff, program managers, operating officials, and applicants on legal or regulatory requirements relating to various HR functions.
Works directly with the IRS Human Capital Office on complex issues in the assigned areas of discipline and maintains a regular working relationship with HCO Corporate policy on policy development and proposals surrounding the assigned areas of discipline. Focuses on issues that affect the assigned BOD, relative to the incumbent's areas of expertise.
Establishes and maintains a cooperative working relationship with managers; meets with managers to discuss various HR strategies. Provides strategic consultative advisory services on a wide range of initiatives, issues, and problems with management and customer human resources offices.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
Telework Eligible Positions: Telework eligible positions do not guarantee telework. Employees must meet and sustain IRS telework eligibility requirements (e.g., reporting at least twice a pay period to your assigned Post of Duty (POD)) and supervisor's approval to participate in the IRS Telework Program. Employees must also be within a 200-mile radius of their official assigned post-of-duty (POD) while in a telework status. As a reminder - If you are selected for a position, you are responsible for reporting to your designated POD (location) on the negotiated start date or as directed by management.
We may select from this announcement or any other source to fill one or more vacancies. Additional jobs may be filled.
This is a Non-Bargaining unit position.
Tour of Duty: Monday- Friday, start and stop times between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Must be a U.S. Citizen or National.
File a Confidential Financial Disclosure Report within 30 days of selection and annually from then on.
Relocation expenses: NO
Must successfully complete a background investigation, including an FBI criminal history record check (fingerprint check).
Go through a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) process that will require two forms of identification from the Form I-9. Federal law requires verification of the identity and employment eligibility of all new hires in the U.S.
Complete a Declaration for Federal Employment to determine your suitability for Federal employment, at the time requested by the agency.
Undergo an income tax verification.
Submit to a drug test prior to your selection and random drug testing while you occupy the position. A negative drug test is required.
Provide proof of U.S. Citizenship.
(Birth certificate showing birth in the U.S; Unexpired U.S. Passport; Certificate of Citizenship or Naturalization; or Report of Birth Abroad of a U.S. Citizen (Form FS-240))
Selections will be based on business needs, with consideration given to location preference. Though many locations may be listed, you will be limited to a maximum of 5 location choices. Please consider each location carefully when applying. If you are selected for a position at one of your location selections, that location will become your official post of duty.
Qualifications
Federal experience is not required. The experience may have been gained in the public sector, private sector or Volunteer Service. One year of experience refers to full-time work; part-timework is considered on a prorated basis.
To ensure full credit for your work experience, please indicate dates of employment by month/year, and indicate number of hours worked per week, on your resume.

You must meet the following requirements by the closing date of this announcement:

QUALIFICATIONS GS-13: You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the next lower level (GS-12) in the normal line of progression in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience assisting customers, management, and/or Executives on a wide range of principles, practices, and advisory services related to a Human Resources (HR) specialization such as, but not limited to, HR systems, compensation, classification, recruitment, employee benefits, organizational development, performance management and employee labor relations. Experience conducting extensive research and fact-finding for a variety of recruitment and staffing analytical studies and projects and using the data results to make recommendations and support actions to management and executives. Experience serving as a program/project leader providing advice on personnel management issues and special projects. Experience demonstrating communicative techniques in order to meet and deal tactfully and persuasively with others to resolve issues which are often controversial and sensitive in nature. Experience implementing recommended changes and evaluating the results; developing and presenting technical information, guidance, and training to employees on a variety of recruitment and placement topics. Experience utilizing HR information systems (e.g., HR Connect, USA Staffing, Career Connector) to resolve errors, verify data, and perform quality review.
