Duties
Performs a range of compensation duties for the supported organization(s). Interprets regulations, policies, and directives, and uses good judgment to provide accurate pay setting guidance.
Assists in updating guidance and procedures on a range of compensation issues and flexibilities. Assists employees, supervisors, and HR personnel regarding employee grievances related to pay and leave issues and entitlements.
Advises management, employees, and union officials (when covered) on work schedules and hours of work requirements and flexibilities including alternative work schedules; premium pay entitlements; law enforcement and other special pay provisions. Provides interpretive guidance on operating procedures or processes for an organization's alternative work schedule; leave bank and leave sharing; and/or recruitment, relocation, and retention incentive programs.
Analyzes OPM and DOI program guidance to advise management and counsel employees on eligibility for such programs as health and life insurance, leave, Thrift Saving Plan (TSP), physical capability requirements and the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA). Research eligibility requirements on a broad range of benefits and flexibilities available to employees and provides advice and guidance on enrollments and other requirements.
Provides advice on basic program policies, regulatory, requirements, and procedures. Works with subject matter experts to develop and refine instructional methods, course materials, training aids, and improved applications of educational technology for use by education specialists, instructors, managers/supervisors, and employees. Serves as a point of contact for training requests for supported organizations.

Qualifications
In order to be rated as qualified for this position, the HR Office must be able to determine that you meet the education and/or specialized experience requirement - this information must be clearly supported in the resume.

To qualify at the GS-09, you must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to at least the GS-07 level in federal service having demonstrated experience performing or directly related to the work of this position such as:
developing/using internal standard operating procedures, guidelines, training material, or policies on matters related to the compensation and pay administration programs;
researching applicable Federal HR laws and regulations to make determinations on compensation and pay matters to include processing payroll and personnel actions;
presenting briefings or training sessions related to human resources programs;
advising on employee benefits or assisting with completing documents to transfer benefits for onboarding or separating employees;
or other directly related experience.
You could otherwise qualify on the basis of Education having a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. OR J.D., if related.

You may combine specialized experience and education to meet the minimum qualifications.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.

Time-In-Grade: Current career or career-conditional employees of the Federal government, or former career or career-conditional employees, who have a break in service of less than one year, are required to meet the time-in-grade restriction of one year of Federal experience at the next lower-grade, with few exceptions outlined in 5 CFR 300.603(b).

You must meet all Eligibility and Qualification requirements, including time-in-grade restrictions and any selective placement factors if applicable, by 05/13/2024.