Duties
WHAT IS THE HUMAN CAPITAL OFFICEDIVISION?
A description of the business units can be found at: https://www.jobs.irs.gov/about/who/business-divisions

Vacancies will be filled in the following specialty areas:
Human Capital Office of Human Resource Operations Human Resources Shared Services

The following are the duties of this position at the full working level.

Directs and monitors the operation and maintenance of automated Personnel and Time and Attendance Systems. Advises the manager on technical matters. Analyzes systems outputs to evaluate data flow and reporting integrity. Obtains data from the system for local and regional service management information and statistical reporting purposes. Assists in the construction of special system inquiries concerning personnel statistics, quality review of database and other matters.
Assists the manager in identifying potential computer applications. Determines detailed requirements by conducting fact finding in the personnel field or operation in which the work currently exists or will be placed, analyzes the findings and helps determine whether a need actually exists for an ADP solution. If a need is determined to exist prepares a project plan in terms of objectives, functions to be served and expectations of users. Obtains detailed systems analysis, design, programs, documentation, and conversion to new system and system acceptability testing from professional computer systems analyst.
Trains employees in the operation and maintenance of system equipment. Assists in identifying the cause of and means of recovery from operational failures. Develops and maintains instructions and procedures for system operation. Consults computer specialists regarding program or equipment malfunctions.
Gathers factual information for evaluating capabilities and limitations of computer equipment.
Conducts special automation studies and projects for the serviced organizations such as the preparation of directives, development of training and preparation of instructions for users.
This position has career progression. If you are selected at a grade level lower than the full working level, you may be non-competitively promoted as your career progresses. For example, you may be hired as a GS-05, but if the position has career progression to GS-11, then you may move from a GS-05 to a GS-11 in as little as three years.