As an IT Specialist (SYSADMIN) you will perform the following duties:

Serve as a Windows systems administrator responsible for planning and coordinating the installation, testing, operation, and maintenance of hardware and software systems.
Design, develop, acquire, document, integrate, and modify systems for solving problems and accomplishing work processes by installing, configuring and maintaining Windows, VMware, and associated computers and software systems.
Assist in developing and maintaining system documentation, policies and processes associated with systems administration.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
Key Requirements:

Applicants must be U.S. Citizens.
A one year probationary period may be required.
Suitable for Federal employment, as determined by background investigation.
More requirements are listed under Qualifications and Other Information.
Must be registered for Selective Service, if applicable (www.sss.gov)
This position is in Bargaining Unit #1538
Relocation expenses may be authorized
Recruitment incentives may be authorized
Relocation incentives may be authorized
Student Loan repayment may be authorized
A background investigation will be required for this position. Continued employment will be subject to the applicant's successful completion of a background security investigation and favorable adjudication. Failure to successfully meet these requirements will be grounds for termination.
Throughout the recruitment and hiring process we will be communicating with you via email; therefore, it is imperative that the email address you provide when applying for this vacancy remains active. Should your email address change, please notify the point of contact identified in the vacancy announcement as soon as possible so that we can update our system.
If you are a Federal employee applying for a promotion (under merit promotion procedures) you must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the announcement.
Qualifications
Qualification requirements in the vacancy announcements are based on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Qualification Standards Handbook, which contains federal qualification standards. This handbook is available on the Office of Personnel Management's website located at: https://www.opm.gov/policy.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Applicants must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience need not have been in the federal government.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations e.g., professional; philanthropic, religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies; knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience

To qualify at the GS-13 level:
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Applicants must possess one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 in the Federal service. Specialized experience MUST include all of the following:

Assisting with the planning and coordinating the installation, testing, and operation of Windows system software;
Developing and modifying systems to solve technology problems and accomplish work processes related to Windows, VMware and associated systems
Providing systems administration guidance, support, and coordination to IT project planning and project teams.
AND
Applicants must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the following four competencies:

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

