Duties
As an IT SPECIALIST (SYSADMIN/INFOSEC), GS-2210-09 Title 32 you will serve as the Information Protection Manager and focal point for information warfare and telecommunications and computer-security related functions. Serves as the Computer Security (COMPUSEC) Manager. Manage the Telecommunications Security program for the Group. Participate in installation, configuration, operation, administration, monitoring, and systems operation documentation, of network and application server hardware, operating system software, telecommunications systems, peripheral network equipment, and Automated Information Systems (AIS). Perform customer service/control center duties such as accepting trouble calls, providing on the spot CIS systems assistance and guidance, routing requirement requests to the proper functional area, and documenting all facets of customer's requests for any computer information communications service provided by the division. Perform general network and telecommunications systems administration within approved existing structure such as resetting user passwords and access rights, adding and modifying users, assisting in the configuration of services in a variety of systems. Serve as the Communications Security (COMSEC) Manager for all cryptographic activities. Establish and manage the Air Force Electronic Key Management System (AFKEMS) program for the Group. Prepare Emergency Action Plans (EAPs) operating instructions to ensure that the EAPs can be implemented immediately. Assists in the management of the Group cryptographic access program (CAP). Perform other duties as assigned.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
NATIONAL GUARD MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED. If you are not sure you are eligible for military membership, please contact a National Guard recruiter prior to applying for this position.
This is an excepted service position that requires membership in a compatible military assignment in the employing state's National Guard, required prior to the effective date of placement.
Selectee will be required to wear the military uniform.
Acceptance of an excepted service position constitutes concurrence with these requirements as a condition of employment.
Applicants who are not currently a member of the National Guard must be eligible for immediate membership and employment in the National Guard in the military grade listed in this announcement.
Males born after 31 December 1959 must be registered for Selective Service.
Federal employment suitability as determined by a background investigation.
May be required to successfully complete a probationary period.
Participation in direct deposit is mandatory.
Must be able to obtain and maintain the appropriate security clearance of the position.
This position is covered by the Domestic Violence Misdemeanor Amendment (30 Sep 96) of the Gun Control Act (Lautenberg Amendment) of 1968. An individual convicted of a qualifying crime of domestic violence may not perform the duties of this position.
Ability to establish effective professional working relationships with coworkers and customers, contributing to a cooperative working environment and successful accomplishment of the mission.
Irregular and/or overtime (compensatory) hours may be required to support operational requirements or contingencies or may be required to work hours outside of the normal duty day.
The duties and responsibilities of your job may significantly impact the environment.
You are responsible to maintain awareness of your environmental responsibilities as dictated by legal and regulatory requirements, your organization, and its changing mission.
THIS POSITION CONDUCTS INFORMATION ASSURANCE FUNCTIONS. THE INCUMBENT SHALL COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CERTIFICATION PROGRAM AND WILL BE REQUIRED TO OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN CERTIFICATION.
CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS ARE OUTLINED IN DOD INSTRUCTION 8570.01-M *Statement updated to align with current policy.
Applicant must complete a Baseline Pre-Placement Screening for General Schedule positions within 30 days of appointment.
Acceptance of a Federal position may terminate Tricare Reserve Select eligibility.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver’s license for the state in which they live or are principally employed.
Qualifications
Military Grades: E-3 through E6

AFSC; 1D771Q

GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience managing, supervising, leading, administering, developing, delivering, and supporting information technology (IT) systems and services Experience, education, and/or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Must have at least 1 year at the next lower GS level or 12 months specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. In addition to the OPM IORs (Alternative A) specialized experience examples, specialized experience includes experience, education, or training receiving, maintaining, and issuing data storage media for computer operations. Experience in scheduling the use of computer time for program processing. Experience collecting and sequentially staging input media with associated program instructions for processing. Experience in at least one programming language; translating detailed logical steps developed by others into language codes that computers accept where this required understanding of procedures and limitations appropriate to use of a programming language. Experience interviewing subject-matter personnel to get facts regarding work processes and synthesizing the resulting data into charts showing information flow. Experience in analysis of the interrelationship of pertinent components of the system. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment. Experience scheduling the sequence of programs to be processed by computers where alternatives had to be weighed with a view to production efficiency.

Education
Education Requirement: NONE




Additional information
If you are a male applicant who was born after 12/31/1959 and are required to register under the Military Selective Service Act, the Defense Authorization Act of 1986 requires that you be registered or you are not eligible for appointment in this agency (Register | Selective Service System : Selective Service System (sss.gov)).
