Duties
Performs a range of compensation duties for the supported organization(s). Interprets regulations, policies, and directives, and uses good judgment to provide accurate pay setting guidance.
Assists in updating guidance and procedures on a range of compensation issues and flexibilities. Assists employees, supervisors, and HR personnel regarding employee grievances related to pay and leave issues and entitlements.
Advises management, employees, and union officials (when covered) on work schedules and hours of work requirements and flexibilities including alternative work schedules; premium pay entitlements; law enforcement and other special pay provisions. Provides interpretive guidance on operating procedures or processes for an organization's alternative work schedule; leave bank and leave sharing; and/or recruitment, relocation, and retention incentive programs.
Analyzes OPM and DOI program guidance to advise management and counsel employees on eligibility for such programs as health and life insurance, leave, Thrift Saving Plan (TSP), physical capability requirements and the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA). Research eligibility requirements on a broad range of benefits and flexibilities available to employees and provides advice and guidance on enrollments and other requirements.
Provides advice on basic program policies, regulatory, requirements, and procedures. Works with subject matter experts to develop and refine instructional methods, course materials, training aids, and improved applications of educational technology for use by education specialists, instructors, managers/supervisors, and employees. Serves as a point of contact for training requests for supported organizations.

Qualifications
In order to be rated as qualified for this position, the HR Office must be able to determine that you meet the education and/or specialized experience requirement - this information must be clearly supported in the resume.

To qualify at the GS-09, you must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to at least the GS-07 level in federal service having demonstrated experience performing or directly related to the work of this position such as:
developing/using internal standard operating procedures, guidelines, training material, or policies on matters related to the compensation and pay administration programs;
researching applicable Federal HR laws and regulations to make determinations on compensation and pay matters to include processing payroll and personnel actions;
presenting briefings or training sessions related to human resources programs;
advising on employee benefits or assisting with completing documents to transfer benefits for onboarding or separating employees;
or other directly related experience.
You could otherwise qualify on the basis of Education having a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. OR J.D., if related.

You may combine specialized experience and education to meet the minimum qualifications.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.

Time-In-Grade: Current career or career-conditional employees of the Federal government, or former career or career-conditional employees, who have a break in service of less than one year, are required to meet the time-in-grade restriction of one year of Federal experience at the next lower-grade, with few exceptions outlined in 5 CFR 300.603(b).

You must meet all Eligibility and Qualification requirements, including time-in-grade restrictions and any selective placement factors if applicable, by 05/13/2024.

@@

Vacancies will be filled in the following specialty areas:
Criminal Investigation Strategy- Human Resources

The following are the duties of this position at the full working level.

The incumbent is responsible for serving as a strategic business partner to support BOD leadership in all Human Resource related issues. The incumbent is also responsible for implementation and interpretation of Human Resources policies and procedures.
Ensures the execution of key BOD HR initiatives and processes to drive continuous improvement in the areas of organization effectiveness, staffing, employee relations, training and development, benefits, employment practices, and compliance.
Provides authoritative information and/or advice to human resource support staff, program managers, operating officials, and applicants on legal or regulatory requirements relating to various HR functions.
Works directly with the IRS Human Capital Office on complex issues in the assigned areas of discipline and maintains a regular working relationship with HCO Corporate policy on policy development and proposals surrounding the assigned areas of discipline. Focuses on issues that affect the assigned BOD, relative to the incumbent's areas of expertise.
Establishes and maintains a cooperative working relationship with managers; meets with managers to discuss various HR strategies. Provides strategic consultative advisory services on a wide range of initiatives, issues, and problems with management and customer human resources offices.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
Telework Eligible Positions: Telework eligible positions do not guarantee telework. Employees must meet and sustain IRS telework eligibility requirements (e.g., reporting at least twice a pay period to your assigned Post of Duty (POD)) and supervisor's approval to participate in the IRS Telework Program. Employees must also be within a 200-mile radius of their official assigned post-of-duty (POD) while in a telework status. As a reminder - If you are selected for a position, you are responsible for reporting to your designated POD (location) on the negotiated start date or as directed by management.
We may select from this announcement or any other source to fill one or more vacancies. Additional jobs may be filled.
This is a Non-Bargaining unit position.
Tour of Duty: Monday- Friday, start and stop times between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
Must be a U.S. Citizen or National.
File a Confidential Financial Disclosure Report within 30 days of selection and annually from then on.
Relocation expenses: NO
Must successfully complete a background investigation, including an FBI criminal history record check (fingerprint check).
Go through a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) process that will require two forms of identification from the Form I-9. Federal law requires verification of the identity and employment eligibility of all new hires in the U.S.
Complete a Declaration for Federal Employment to determine your suitability for Federal employment, at the time requested by the agency.
Undergo an income tax verification.
Submit to a drug test prior to your selection and random drug testing while you occupy the position. A negative drug test is required.
Provide proof of U.S. Citizenship.
(Birth certificate showing birth in the U.S; Unexpired U.S. Passport; Certificate of Citizenship or Naturalization; or Report of Birth Abroad of a U.S. Citizen (Form FS-240))
Selections will be based on business needs, with consideration given to location preference. Though many locations may be listed, you will be limited to a maximum of 5 location choices. Please consider each location carefully when applying. If you are selected for a position at one of your location selections, that location will become your official post of duty.
Qualifications
Federal experience is not required. The experience may have been gained in the public sector, private sector or Volunteer Service. One year of experience refers to full-time work; part-timework is considered on a prorated basis.
To ensure full credit for your work experience, please indicate dates of employment by month/year, and indicate number of hours worked per week, on your resume.

You must meet the following requirements by the closing date of this announcement:

QUALIFICATIONS GS-13: You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the next lower level (GS-12) in the normal line of progression in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience assisting customers, management, and/or Executives on a wide range of principles, practices, and advisory services related to a Human Resources (HR) specialization such as, but not limited to, HR systems, compensation, classification, recruitment, employee benefits, organizational development, performance management and employee labor relations. Experience conducting extensive research and fact-finding for a variety of recruitment and staffing analytical studies and projects and using the data results to make recommendations and support actions to management and executives. Experience serving as a program/project leader providing advice on personnel management issues and special projects. Experience demonstrating communicative techniques in order to meet and deal tactfully and persuasively with others to resolve issues which are often controversial and sensitive in nature. Experience implementing recommended changes and evaluating the results; developing and presenting technical information, guidance, and training to employees on a variety of recruitment and placement topics. Experience utilizing HR information systems (e.g., HR Connect, USA Staffing, Career Connector) to resolve errors, verify data, and perform quality review.



AND
MEET TIME IN GRADE (TIG) REQUIREMENT: You must meet applicable TIG requirements to be considered eligible. To meet TIG for positions above the GS-05 grade level, you must have served at least one year (52 weeks) at the next lower grade (or equivalent) in the normal line of progression for the position you are applying to. Advancement to positions up to GS-05 is permitted if the position to be filled is no more than two grades above the lowest grade held within the preceding 52 weeks.

AND
TIME AFTER COMPETITIVE APPOINTMENT: By the closing date (or if this is an open continuous announcement, by the cut-off date) specified in this job announcement, current civilian employees must have completed at least 90 days of federal civilian service since their latest non-temporary appointment from a competitive referral certificate, known as time after competitive appointment. For this requirement, a competitive appointment is one where you applied to and were appointed from an announcement open to "All US Citizens".


For more information on qualifications please refer to OPM's Qualifications Standards.

Education
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
A college or university degree generally must be from an accredited (or pre-accredited) college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. For a list of schools which meet these criteria, please refer to Department of Education Accreditation page.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: Education completed in foreign colleges or universities may be used to meet the requirements. You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. Click here for Foreign Education Credentialing instructions.

Additional information
Subject to a 1-year probationary period (unless already completed).
Have your salary sent to a financial institution of your choice by Direct Deposit/Electronic Funds Transfer.
If you are a male applicant born after December 31, 1959, certify that you have registered with the Selective Service System or are exempt from having to do so.
The salary range indicated in this announcement reflects the minimum locality pay up to maximum locality pay for all duty locations listed. The range will be adjusted for selected duty location. General Schedule locality pay tables may be found under Salaries & Wages.
Alternative work schedule, staggered work hours or telework may be available.
Obtain and use a Government-issued charge card for business-related travel.
Limit to 150 applicants.
The Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs Act prohibits the Department of Treasury and its bureaus from requesting an applicant's criminal history record before that individual receives a conditional offer of employment. In accordance with 5 U.S. Code § 9202(c) and 5 C.F.R § 920.201 certain positions are exempt from the provisions of the Fair Chance to Compete Act. Applicants who believe they have been subjected to a violation of the Fair Chance to Compete for Jobs Act, may submit a written complaint to the Department of Treasury by email at, FairChanceAct@treasury.gov. To learn more, please visit our page at: Treasury.gov/fairchanceact.

@@

Duties
WHAT IS THE HUMAN CAPITAL OFFICEDIVISION?
A description of the business units can be found at: https://www.jobs.irs.gov/about/who/business-divisions

Vacancies will be filled in the following specialty areas:
Human Capital Office of Human Resource Operations Human Resources Shared Services

The following are the duties of this position at the full working level.

Directs and monitors the operation and maintenance of automated Personnel and Time and Attendance Systems. Advises the manager on technical matters. Analyzes systems outputs to evaluate data flow and reporting integrity. Obtains data from the system for local and regional service management information and statistical reporting purposes. Assists in the construction of special system inquiries concerning personnel statistics, quality review of database and other matters.
Assists the manager in identifying potential computer applications. Determines detailed requirements by conducting fact finding in the personnel field or operation in which the work currently exists or will be placed, analyzes the findings and helps determine whether a need actually exists for an ADP solution. If a need is determined to exist prepares a project plan in terms of objectives, functions to be served and expectations of users. Obtains detailed systems analysis, design, programs, documentation, and conversion to new system and system acceptability testing from professional computer systems analyst.
Trains employees in the operation and maintenance of system equipment. Assists in identifying the cause of and means of recovery from operational failures. Develops and maintains instructions and procedures for system operation. Consults computer specialists regarding program or equipment malfunctions.
Gathers factual information for evaluating capabilities and limitations of computer equipment.
Conducts special automation studies and projects for the serviced organizations such as the preparation of directives, development of training and preparation of instructions for users.
This position has career progression. If you are selected at a grade level lower than the full working level, you may be non-competitively promoted as your career progresses. For example, you may be hired as a GS-05, but if the position has career progression to GS-11, then you may move from a GS-05 to a GS-11 in as little as three years.

@@

Duties
As an IT SPECIALIST (SYSADMIN/INFOSEC), GS-2210-09 Title 32 you will serve as the Information Protection Manager and focal point for information warfare and telecommunications and computer-security related functions. Serves as the Computer Security (COMPUSEC) Manager. Manage the Telecommunications Security program for the Group. Participate in installation, configuration, operation, administration, monitoring, and systems operation documentation, of network and application server hardware, operating system software, telecommunications systems, peripheral network equipment, and Automated Information Systems (AIS). Perform customer service/control center duties such as accepting trouble calls, providing on the spot CIS systems assistance and guidance, routing requirement requests to the proper functional area, and documenting all facets of customer's requests for any computer information communications service provided by the division. Perform general network and telecommunications systems administration within approved existing structure such as resetting user passwords and access rights, adding and modifying users, assisting in the configuration of services in a variety of systems. Serve as the Communications Security (COMSEC) Manager for all cryptographic activities. Establish and manage the Air Force Electronic Key Management System (AFKEMS) program for the Group. Prepare Emergency Action Plans (EAPs) operating instructions to ensure that the EAPs can be implemented immediately. Assists in the management of the Group cryptographic access program (CAP). Perform other duties as assigned.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
NATIONAL GUARD MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED. If you are not sure you are eligible for military membership, please contact a National Guard recruiter prior to applying for this position.
This is an excepted service position that requires membership in a compatible military assignment in the employing state's National Guard, required prior to the effective date of placement.
Selectee will be required to wear the military uniform.
Acceptance of an excepted service position constitutes concurrence with these requirements as a condition of employment.
Applicants who are not currently a member of the National Guard must be eligible for immediate membership and employment in the National Guard in the military grade listed in this announcement.
Males born after 31 December 1959 must be registered for Selective Service.
Federal employment suitability as determined by a background investigation.
May be required to successfully complete a probationary period.
Participation in direct deposit is mandatory.
Must be able to obtain and maintain the appropriate security clearance of the position.
This position is covered by the Domestic Violence Misdemeanor Amendment (30 Sep 96) of the Gun Control Act (Lautenberg Amendment) of 1968. An individual convicted of a qualifying crime of domestic violence may not perform the duties of this position.
Ability to establish effective professional working relationships with coworkers and customers, contributing to a cooperative working environment and successful accomplishment of the mission.
Irregular and/or overtime (compensatory) hours may be required to support operational requirements or contingencies or may be required to work hours outside of the normal duty day.
The duties and responsibilities of your job may significantly impact the environment.
You are responsible to maintain awareness of your environmental responsibilities as dictated by legal and regulatory requirements, your organization, and its changing mission.
THIS POSITION CONDUCTS INFORMATION ASSURANCE FUNCTIONS. THE INCUMBENT SHALL COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CERTIFICATION PROGRAM AND WILL BE REQUIRED TO OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN CERTIFICATION.
CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS ARE OUTLINED IN DOD INSTRUCTION 8570.01-M *Statement updated to align with current policy.
Applicant must complete a Baseline Pre-Placement Screening for General Schedule positions within 30 days of appointment.
Acceptance of a Federal position may terminate Tricare Reserve Select eligibility.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver’s license for the state in which they live or are principally employed.
Qualifications
Military Grades: E-3 through E6

AFSC; 1D771Q

GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience managing, supervising, leading, administering, developing, delivering, and supporting information technology (IT) systems and services Experience, education, and/or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Must have at least 1 year at the next lower GS level or 12 months specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. In addition to the OPM IORs (Alternative A) specialized experience examples, specialized experience includes experience, education, or training receiving, maintaining, and issuing data storage media for computer operations. Experience in scheduling the use of computer time for program processing. Experience collecting and sequentially staging input media with associated program instructions for processing. Experience in at least one programming language; translating detailed logical steps developed by others into language codes that computers accept where this required understanding of procedures and limitations appropriate to use of a programming language. Experience interviewing subject-matter personnel to get facts regarding work processes and synthesizing the resulting data into charts showing information flow. Experience in analysis of the interrelationship of pertinent components of the system. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment. Experience scheduling the sequence of programs to be processed by computers where alternatives had to be weighed with a view to production efficiency.

Education
Education Requirement: NONE




Additional information
If you are a male applicant who was born after 12/31/1959 and are required to register under the Military Selective Service Act, the Defense Authorization Act of 1986 requires that you be registered or you are not eligible for appointment in this agency (Register | Selective Service System : Selective Service System (sss.gov)).

@@

As an IT Specialist (SYSADMIN) you will perform the following duties:

Serve as a Windows systems administrator responsible for planning and coordinating the installation, testing, operation, and maintenance of hardware and software systems.
Design, develop, acquire, document, integrate, and modify systems for solving problems and accomplishing work processes by installing, configuring and maintaining Windows, VMware, and associated computers and software systems.
Assist in developing and maintaining system documentation, policies and processes associated with systems administration.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
Key Requirements:

Applicants must be U.S. Citizens.
A one year probationary period may be required.
Suitable for Federal employment, as determined by background investigation.
More requirements are listed under Qualifications and Other Information.
Must be registered for Selective Service, if applicable (www.sss.gov)
This position is in Bargaining Unit #1538
Relocation expenses may be authorized
Recruitment incentives may be authorized
Relocation incentives may be authorized
Student Loan repayment may be authorized
A background investigation will be required for this position. Continued employment will be subject to the applicant's successful completion of a background security investigation and favorable adjudication. Failure to successfully meet these requirements will be grounds for termination.
Throughout the recruitment and hiring process we will be communicating with you via email; therefore, it is imperative that the email address you provide when applying for this vacancy remains active. Should your email address change, please notify the point of contact identified in the vacancy announcement as soon as possible so that we can update our system.
If you are a Federal employee applying for a promotion (under merit promotion procedures) you must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the announcement.
Qualifications
Qualification requirements in the vacancy announcements are based on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Qualification Standards Handbook, which contains federal qualification standards. This handbook is available on the Office of Personnel Management's website located at: https://www.opm.gov/policy.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Applicants must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience need not have been in the federal government.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations e.g., professional; philanthropic, religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies; knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience

To qualify at the GS-13 level:
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Applicants must possess one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 in the Federal service. Specialized experience MUST include all of the following:

Assisting with the planning and coordinating the installation, testing, and operation of Windows system software;
Developing and modifying systems to solve technology problems and accomplish work processes related to Windows, VMware and associated systems
Providing systems administration guidance, support, and coordination to IT project planning and project teams.
AND
Applicants must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the following four competencies:

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

